i started studying marxism like a couple
of months ago
during quarantine and i've always kind
of wondered like the most famous
um communist states that we hear of seem
to end in
dictatorship and um worse
like worst conditions for the
proletariat and the working-class people
and i was wondering like what mechanisms
we could put in place
in our current movement to try and
prevent that sort of
thing from happening like how we can
make sure
that doesn't occur because that is like
the scariest part of marxism a little
bit for me
i would say um i was actually going to
jump in
on the same question um that mason asked
earlier about how we can
hopefully relate marks to people in a
way that's a little less intimidating
um so one thing i've always found really
helpful because
i've always been kind of that guy who
would go into my minimum wage job
and just start radicalizing co-workers
as best i could
um is that a lot of people are kind of
resistant to marx's
texts uh due to size and due to language
and it being somewhat intimidating
uh up front and along with as stephanie
said all the
historical baggage that comes with it
but i've yet to meet anyone
who's scared of discussing their own
working conditions
um how their boss comes into work every
day driving a car that's
10 times nicer than theirs but sits in
the back office and you know screws
around on instagram all day
we've all been there i'm sure most of us
have had
just everyday little situations in the
workplace like that that can be brought
in
as personal examples of how the system
has failed us
[Music]
[Applause]
do
[Music]
[Applause]
do
[Music]
hello everyone and welcome to our
discussion
on the relevance of the communist
manifesto now
we are fight back we are a revolutionary
organization fighting against capitalism
and all forms of injustice uh and not
only are we building the forces of good
in canada we're also part of the
international marxist tendency
and we're fighting to overthrow this
rotten capitalist system
that we all live under the bourgeoisie
is the ruling class
there are those who own capital who own
the means of productions
the meaning they own the materials they
own the tools the machines the
workplaces
all those things that the proletariat
need to use to produce
the proletariat on the other hand or the
working class
only owns one thing their labor power
this is the role of the marxist
to guide the working class movement by
injecting it with the correct ideas and
the correct programs the working class
can ultimately take power and begin to
fundamentally transform society
the only way to accomplish this is to
replace the economic basis
of capitalism by abolishing private
property more specifically the private
ownership of the means of production
private property is already done away
with for nine tenths of the population
its existence for the few is only due to
its non-existence in the hands of those
nine tenths
so what this means is that the grand
majority of people in the world
don't own private property they don't
own banks they don't have any monopolies
they don't own any factories
and for the few that do the only way
that they can have them to keep them
is by preventing any of us from ever
having those things
this is what fight back in the
international marxist tendency aims to
do
we openly declare that we intend to bury
the decrepit capitalist system
but we can't do it alone above all else
what capitalism creates
its own gravediggers so grab a shovel
and join us
uh thank you for the presentation and uh
i'm new to learning about marxism so
excuse my ignorance for this question
but
for example how would the housing
change because in a in a marxist system
like the
the concept of profit for example the
meaning changes
so for example if we lived in a marxist
society
uh how would private housing like you
know the way
we have our houses right now and how we
live
how would that change um my question is
just about
what uh transition from either feudalism
to capitalism and then now capitalism
into
ostensibly marxism what that would look
like and if that was addressed by marx
in his writings and
is it an inherently like as an overthrow
of society is there do people believe
that there is an opportunity for
like a peaceful transition or is it
just kind of in general believe that it
has to be a violent overthrow
uh i was watching the classes with my
mom
and uh i just had a question
uh just a small question of
if uh the whole community goes
into a marx estate then how will
the trade and business go on
so how would that happen uh
if if it was in a marxist state i wish
my mother
would attend these sessions she's just
not into it unfortunately
you may not have felt this way when you
were in school
but some students they looked at
another boy or they looked at another
girl and they saw that this person was
more intelligent maybe more well-spoken
maybe more attractive
and instead of just being happy for that
other person
they felt that things would be a lot
better
for them things would be a lot more
equal
if that other person was eliminated
people who are recruiting young minds
into communism make use of this
envy make use of this feeling of
jealousy
toward people who seem to have more than
you who seem to have
something that you lack in the case of
communist ideology
it's usually not about somebody's looks
it's not about their intelligence
in this case it's appealing to the envy
and jealousy that people feel
towards those who have more money
towards those who have better cars
towards those who have better homes
actually owning a home as opposed to
renting an apartment
i have had about 13 different jobs in my
life
and many of them were minimum wage jobs
they were the most menial jobs you can
imagine
and i had the experience of seeing
my boss working less than me
but earning more money in certain
positions where i would work for
a fast food chain i would see the head
of the franchise
come in maybe once a week just to look
at the place
and they came in in a fancy car they
drove up in a fancy car
they walked in they were wearing
professional
uh expensive looking clothes and
i could see that they were wealthier
than me they were wealthier than
all of my co-workers as well what
communists talk about
is owning the means of production and in
this sense i
really just don't get it i really think
this is a stupid line of thought
and if you've actually worked in a fast
food restaurant
who who has worked there has thought you
know what
my life would be a lot better if i owned
this friar if i myself could own
this whole building if i was responsible
for owning this building
and if i had to pay the rent to
lease this place uh so that this fast
food restaurant would stay in business
there's a lot of responsibility that
goes into that that if you just work
as a minimum wage worker
you don't have to deal with that
responsibility wouldn't it be even more
absurd to say that
my life would be better my job would be
better if instead of working for this
corporate boss
that i was working for the government if
this fast food restaurant was owned by
the government
communists promise you equality but
if you worked for a company if you
worked for a fast food chain
and it was owned by the government there
would still be a man
who would show up driving a car more
expensive than you could ever afford
there would still be this man showing up
in clothes
more expensive than you could ever
afford and
it's the same situation still but this
time
instead of working for a man who's
risked his own money
who's risked his own livelihood in order
to get to this position
you're working for a government
bureaucrat you are under
the supervision of a government
bureaucrat this is an equality
this is the same system but the
ownership is through the government
rather than private industry in
a communist society will there still be
teachers
and will there still be students there
is always going to be this fundamental
inequality between people
and in a communist society there will
still be a military right
there will still be different ranks
within the military
there will still be infantry men there
will still be commanders there will
still be generals
there will be political leaders and
there will be political followers
the communists promise equality but
really all that they can offer
is to destroy the banks to destroy the
stock market
to destroy the private sector and
replace it
with government bureaucracy